# AInder-matcher
AInder matcher is an intelligent version of a dating app and utilizes AI methods to find matches for registered users

AInder Matcher is an intelligent version of a dating app that utilizes AI methods to find matches. The idea is that the registered users don’t need to expose information or pictures of themselves in public. Users don’t need to try to give an unrealistically good impression of themselves with a perfect profile, because in AInder Matcher there will not be any public profiles, and the profile information that is used to find matches will never be shown to anyone. The messaging channel will be enabled between those who the application finds a good match. 
AInder Matcher is better at finding the optimal partner than the for example Tinder users are without the help of AI, because it can utilize data that wouldn’t be shown in self-made public profiles, and the profile data wouldn’t be as superficial as what is presented in TIinder. The users can do multi-choice exercises to teach the AI their preferences and turn-off issues in a partner, enter pictures and information aboutf or example their dating history, health, physical condition, looks and just about anything. The AI will possibly be able to find even the genetically optimal matches if genetic data is utilized.

Background
There are several problems with traditional dating apps that people desperately use to find a date or a partner. In traditional dating apps the users are supposed to create a profile, like a selling CV, which doesn't make sense, because some are good at creating a "selling" profile and some are not. The ability to create a selling profile will increase the probability for matches, but it doesn’t make any difference to whether the match is more potential or not. For many people it is disturbing to expose information and pictures of themselves in a dating app, because they simply prefer more privacy. It’s also very common that the perfect-looking profile is far from perfect in reality. I have seen my single friends’ Tinder adventures and although I have witnessed a few great results, I have seen more disappointments when the profile and the reality don’t match. My friends have also let me play with their Tinder profiles and thus I have been able to find some familiar faces there and see how they have presented themselves, which is the reason for I could never use a traditional dating app myself. I’m convinced that AI can be very helpful when searching the right partner, especially at this special time when the number of meetings should be limited due to covid. I think AI would think more “outside the box” as it wouldn’t get stuck to irrational obsessions like humans often do.

Data and AI techniques
AInder Matcher project depends on the data the users provide themselves about themselves. The data could include almost any information and even pictures. The data can also be collected from other apps, for example sports and health apps. The more data users enter the more precise matches the app will make. Since the profile information will not be show in public, the users don’t need to be shy about what data they provide. 
The AI methods used for match-making could be based on optimization and machine learning. AI method that could be used: Deep learning. The idea is to teach the app the different coefficients for different profile data.

How it is used
AInder Matcher is used instead of “traditional” dating apps by those who would use a dating app or those who feel that they need a dating app, but don’t want to do it due to the lack of privacy in traditional dating apps.

Challenges
The project does not solve the fact that everything cannot be measured or rated when handling love. Are there issues that can never be defined, measured or classified? Can for example the chemistry between two people be measured? Can the optimal chemistry be defined with the help of training data?
